It's time for another conceptual aside.
This is another important concept
that deals with some of the weirder,
surprising things that can
happen sometimes in JavaScript.
Because it's a dynamically typed language,
but also can be very powerful.
This concept is coercion.
All right, you know what that means,
big word alert.
Coercion, converting a value from one type
to another, that's all it really means.
You might have a number and you coerce it,
or attempt to convert it to a string.
Or you have a string and you coerce it or
attempt to convert it to a number and
so on and so forth.
This happens quite a bit in JavaScript,
because it's dynamically typed.
Let's look at an example.
So I've already seen that
I have an operator and
it takes two parameters and that this
is a function, that returns a value.
So a is set equal to 3 because 1 + 2 is 3,
very clear.
Now you may also know that the plus
operator is used to do something else.
If I pass two numbers to the plus
operator, then I get addition.
But if I pass two strings like hello and
world, then instead of
trying to add it as numbers,
it concatenates the string and
puts them together.
Now, here's the question, what if I
pass the operator two different types?
If I give this function a number and
a string,
what do you think is going to happen?
What will be my value?
Well, I refresh and
I get what looks like 12.
Now wait a minute,
did the math just go haywire?
No, what I got was,
as if these were two strings and
it simply put them together, 1 and then 2.
So what just happened?
What happened was that this value,
the first parameter,
was coerced by the JavaScript
engine into a string.
In memory, the string 1 and
the number 1 look nothing alike.
Now they look awfully similar when you're
typing on the screen, but actually in
the computer memory the number 1 and
the string 1 don't look anything alike.
But the JavaScript engine was smart enough
to say, well I know the people that coded
the JavaScript engine coded this guess,
this best guess, into the engine said.
When you call the plus operator this
function, and you give me a number
and a string, then I'm going to make
a choice to try to coerce that number.
I'm going to try to figure out what
it would be if it was a string,
and the JavaScript engine
successfully coerced that 1,
it didn't literally type those in,
those characters.
But under the hood it coerced that
from the number 1 to the string
representation of the number 1, and
then finished running that function.
Notice that I didn't ask
JavaScript to coerce this value,
I didn't type something here special that
sent some kind of convert this to
a string value or something like that.
I simply called the function with these
two parameters and when the function ran,
it chose to coerce my value
instead of giving me an error,
which is what some other
programming languages would do.
And this has a lot to do with the fact
that JavaScript is dynamically typed,
so it tends to try to convert
things to the value that you want.
Because you're not explicitly telling
it what values, types should be,
this is just happening under
the hood of the JavaScript engine.
And understanding that coercion
is happening is very important,
because you can avoid
some important bugs and
debug things when things
look a little strange.
For example,
if someone had accidentally typed this,
you would understand that 1 plus
2 is 12 because of coercion.
Because this is a string and
this is a number and it's being coerced.
Sometimes these things can
be hard to pick up on.
For example,
if I had just said var a equals 1, and
b equals 2, and I outputted a plus b,
I still get 12.
Because b is a string, and
a is a number, and it coerced a.
But if there was a whole bunch of
code in between these two lines, and
this b was set somewhere else in the code,
you could be really confused by
the fact that's returning 12.
But we understand coercion, so
we can track down what's really happening.
And we also understand that operators are
just functions, so they're running code,
and coercion is part of that
process of calling that function.
So, we understand that
JavaScript is doing its best
to understand what something should be.
Because it's dynamically typed,
and that coercion is a part,
a fundamental part of the JavaScript
language as a result.
All right, let's move on.